# Background scripts and extension service worker

Different browsers have different support for [background script and extension service worker](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/manifest.json/background#browser_support).

Chrome calls it extension service worker in manifest V3 whereas Mozilla calls it background scripts, but both are declared by.the `background` key in `manifest.json`. For simplicity, we will just call them "background worker" in this page.

Background worker can be used to support the complexity in browser extensions. The pattern of content scripts, popup, or any other page communicating with the background worker to get data or instructions resembles a client-server communication.

A default background worker is created in your project, if you have used the project template to create a new project, or used bootstrap for existing project.

Otherwise, you can create a new `BackgroundWorker.cs` class with the content below.

```csharp
public partial class BackgroundWorker : BackgroundWorkerBase
{
    [BackgroundWorkerMain]
    public override void Main()
    {
        WebExtensions.Runtime.OnInstalled.AddListener(OnInstalled);
    }

    async Task OnInstalled()
    {
        var indexPageUrl = await WebExtensions.Runtime.GetURL("index.html");
        await WebExtensions.Tabs.Create(new()
        {
            Url = indexPageUrl
        });
    }
}
```

In the manifest, the background worker is declared in the `background` key.

```json
{
  ...
  "background": {
    "service_worker": "content/BackgroundWorker.js",
    "type": "module"
  },
  ...
}
```


## Mozilla Firefox

The implementation in Firefox requires a small adjustment in the `manifest.json`.

```json
{
  ...
  "background": {
    "scripts": ["content/BackgroundWorker.js"],
    "type": "module"
  },
  ...
}
```


## Where does this `content/BackgroundWorker.js` come from?

The `BackgroundWorker.js` file is generated by this package in two steps.

1. The `Blazor.BrowserExtension.Analyzer` package is responsible for reading the code in `BackgroundWorker.cs` and translate it into JavaScript, storing it temporarily in the file `obj/BackgroundWorkerMain.generated.js`.
0. The `Blazor.BrowserExtension` build resolves all the imported modules and generates the file `content/BackgroundWorker.js`.


# Reference

- [Chrome for Developers](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/service-workers)
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Background_scripts)
