CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to this repository

## We Develop with Github
We use GitHub to host code, to track issues and feature requests, as well as accept pull requests.

## Report bugs using Github's issues
We use GitHub issues to track bugs. Report a bug by opening a new issue.

## Write bug reports with detail, background, and sample code
Great Bug Reports tend to have:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
  - Be specific!
  - Give sample code if you can.
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens
- Notes (possibly including why you think this might be happening, or what you have tried that didn't work)

## We Use Github Flow, So All Code Changes Happen Through Pull Requests
Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the codebase. We actively welcome your pull requests:

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from main.
0. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests.
0. Ensure the test suite passes.
0. Create a pull request!

## Working in this repository
### Packages shipped by this repository
There are two packages that are shipped from the two repositories:
1. Blazor.BrowserExtension
0. Blazor.BrowserExtension.Build

### Blazor.BrowserExtension
This package provides the runtime functionalities, including:
- Importing the browser polyfill
- Importing WebExtensions.Net and registering in dependency container
- Handling the page reload in background

### Blazor.BrowserExtension.Build
This package facilitates the build process by defining and importing the build tasks, including:
- Validating extension manifest
- Replacing content of Blazor framework .js files
- Converting project name to safe string to be used as ID in JavaScript

### Use a Consistent Coding Style
- 4 spaces (C#) or 2 spaces (XML/JSON/JS) for indentation rather than tabs.
- Every `if`, `else`, `for`, `foreach`, `while` etc should have its own opening and closing bracket, even if it is a single line statement.
- Every code file changed should be formatted properly (CTRL+K, CTRL+D in VS or ALT+SHIFT+F in VS Code).

### Running the integration tests
1. Download the chrome driver from (here)[http://chromedriver.storage.googleapis.com/]
0. Extract the chrome driver to the directory C:\SeleniumWebDrivers\ChromeDriver
0. Run the tests using either the Test Explorer in VS or `dotnet test` command

## License
By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under its MIT License.

Commit message:

Add template project information to contributing guidelines

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to this repository

## We Develop with Github
We use GitHub to host code, to track issues and feature requests, as well as accept pull requests.

## Report bugs using Github's issues
We use GitHub issues to track bugs. Report a bug by opening a new issue.

## Write bug reports with detail, background, and sample code
Great Bug Reports tend to have:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
  - Be specific!
  - Give sample code if you can.
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens
- Notes (possibly including why you think this might be happening, or what you have tried that didn't work)

## We Use Github Flow, So All Code Changes Happen Through Pull Requests
Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the codebase. We actively welcome your pull requests:

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from main.
0. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests.
0. Ensure the test suite passes.
0. Create a pull request!

## Working in this repository
### Packages shipped by this repository
There are two packages that are shipped from the two repositories:
1. Blazor.BrowserExtension
0. Blazor.BrowserExtension.Build
0. Blazor.BrowserExtension.Template

### Blazor.BrowserExtension
This package provides the runtime functionalities, including:
- Importing the browser polyfill
- Importing WebExtensions.Net and registering in dependency container
- Handling the page reload in background

### Blazor.BrowserExtension.Build
This package facilitates the build process by defining and importing the build tasks, including:
- Validating extension manifest
- Replacing content of Blazor framework .js files
- Converting project name to safe string to be used as ID in JavaScript

### Blazor.BrowserExtension.Template
This package serves as a template for initiating a new project using the `dotnet new` command.

### Use a Consistent Coding Style
- 4 spaces (C#) or 2 spaces (XML/JSON/JS) for indentation rather than tabs.
- Every `if`, `else`, `for`, `foreach`, `while` etc should have its own opening and closing bracket, even if it is a single line statement.
- Every code file changed should be formatted properly (CTRL+K, CTRL+D in VS or ALT+SHIFT+F in VS Code).

### Running the integration tests
1. Download the chrome driver from (here)[http://chromedriver.storage.googleapis.com/]
0. Extract the chrome driver to the directory C:\SeleniumWebDrivers\ChromeDriver
0. Run the tests using either the Test Explorer in VS or `dotnet test` command

## License
By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under its MIT License.
