README.md, before:

# Blazor.BrowserExtension
[![Nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Blazor.BrowserExtension?style=flat-square&color=blue)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Blazor.BrowserExtension/)
[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/mingyaulee/Blazor.BrowserExtension/Build?style=flat-square&color=blue)](https://github.com/mingyaulee/Blazor.BrowserExtension/actions/workflows/Blazor.BrowserExtension-Build.yml)
[![Sonar Quality Gate](https://img.shields.io/sonar/quality_gate/Blazor.BrowserExtension?server=https%3A%2F%2Fsonarcloud.io&style=flat-square)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=Blazor.BrowserExtension)

Build a browser extension with Blazor.

This package imports two other packages, which are:
1. [WebExtensions.Net](https://github.com/mingyaulee/WebExtensions.Net) - Provides interop for WebExtensions standard API.
2. Blazor.BrowserExtension.Build (in this repository) - Adds build target and tasks to the project.

## How to use this package
1. Run `dotnet new --install Blazor.BrowserExtension.Template`.
0. Run `dotnet new browserext --name <ProjectName>` to initialize a new project with the template.
0. Change the working directory into the newly created project directory.
0. Run `dotnet build` to build the project.

### Setup existing project
1. Install NuGet package `Blazor.BrowserExtension`.
0. Add `<BrowserExtensionBootstrap>true</BrowserExtensionBootstrap>` under the `<PropertyGroup>` node in your `.csproj` project file to automatically setup the project files to be compatible for building into browser extension.
0. Build the project.

### Manual Setting Up
You can setup the project manually as well, if for some reason you encounter any problem with the bootstrapping step above.
1. Add a new file `manifest.json` under the `wwwroot` folder. An example of minimal `manifest.json` file:
   ```json
   {
     "manifest_version": 2,
     "name": "My Blazor Extension",
     "description": "My browser extension built with Blazor WebAssembly",
     "version": "0.1",
     "background": {
       "page": "index.html?path=background",
       "persistent": true
     },
     "content_security_policy": "script-src 'self' 'unsafe-eval' 'wasm-eval' 'sha256-v8v3RKRPmN4odZ1CWM5gw80QKPCCWMcpNeOmimNL2AA='; object-src 'self'",
     "web_accessible_resources": [
       "framework/*",
       "BrowserExtensionScripts/*",
       "WebExtensionsScripts/*"
     ],
     "permissions": [
       "*://*/*",
       "webRequest",
       "webRequestBlocking"
     ]
   }
   ```
0. Add the following to the `.csproj` file to make sure that all the files under `wwwroot` will always be copied to the output.
   ```xml
     <ItemGroup>
       <None Include="wwwroot\**\*" CopyToOutputDirectory="Always" />
     </ItemGroup>
   ```
0. In `wwwroot/index.html` replace the script tag `<script src="_framework/blazor.webassembly.js"></script>` with `<script src="BrowserExtensionScripts/Core.js"></script>`
0. In `Pages/Index.razor` replace the first line `@page "/"` with the following lines:
   ```razor
   @page "/"
   @page "/index.html"
   @inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.IndexPage
   ```
0. Add a `Background.razor` file under `Pages` folder (Right click on the `Pages` folder and select Add -> Razor Component), with the following content:
   ```razor
   @page "/background"
   @inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.BackgroundPage
   @using WebExtensions.Net.Tabs
   
   @code {
       protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
       {
           await base.OnInitializedAsync();
           // this opens index.html in the extension as a new tab when the background page is loaded
           var extensionUrl = await WebExtensions.Runtime.GetURL("index.html");
           await WebExtensions.Tabs.Create(new CreateProperties()
           {
               url = extensionUrl
           });
       }
   }
   ```
0. Add the following into `Program.cs` file.
   ```csharp
   public static async Task Main(string[] args)
   {
       ...
       builder.Services.AddBrowserExtensionServices(options =>
       {
           options.ProjectNamespace = typeof(Program).Namespace;
       });
       ...
   }
   ```

## Change initialization behaviour
The following properties can be set to change the behaviour of the core scripts.

| Variable Name               | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ImportBrowserPolyfill       | Set to `false` to disable importing of the browser polyfill script.<br />Default: `true`                                                           |
| StartBlazorBrowserExtension | Set to `false` to prevent auto initialization of Blazor. Use `BlazorBrowserExtension.InitializeAsync` to initialize manually.<br />Default: `true` |

**Example:**

In `wwwroot/index.html`

```html
<script>
  globalThis.ImportBrowserPolyfill = false;
  globalThis.StartBlazorBrowserExtension = false;
</script>
<script src="BrowserExtensionScripts/Core.js"></script>
<script>
  globalThis.BlazorBrowserExtension.InitializeAsync("Production");
</script>
```

## Build and load extension
In Google Chrome, go to the Extensions page (Menu -> More tools -> Extensions) and switch on Developer mode.
Click on `Load unpacked` button and navigate to `%ProjectDir%\bin\Debug\net5.0\` and select the foler `wwwroot`

## Debugging in IIS Express or Kestrel
Update the script tag in `wwwroot/index.html` to load `CoreDebug.js` instead of `Core.js`.
```html
<script src="BrowserExtensionScripts/CoreDebug.js"></script>
```

## Browser Extension features

### Add a browser action popup page
Add the following to the `manifest.json`
```json
"browser_action": {
  "default_popup": "index.html?path=popup"
}
```
Add a `Popup.razor` Razor component under `Pages` folder with the following content.
```razor
@page "/popup"
@inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.BasePage

<h1>My popup page</h1>
```

### Add an extension options page
Add the following to the `manifest.json`
```json
"options_page": "index.html?path=options"
```
Add a `Options.razor` Razor component under `Pages` folder with the following content.
```razor
@page "/options"
@inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.BasePage

<h1>My options page</h1>
```

### Add a content script
Add the following to the `manifest.json`
```json
"content_scripts": [
  {
    "matches": [ "*://*/*" ],
    "js": [ "BrowserExtensionScripts/ContentScript.js" ]
  }
]
```
Add a `ContentScript.razor` Razor component under `Pages` folder with the following content.
```razor
@page "/contentscript"
@inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.BasePage

<h1>My content script</h1>
```
Additional changes are required for content scripts to not have conflict of the element ID of the Blazor root component with any other elements in any pages.
1. In `index.html` change the ID `app` of line `<div id="app">Loading...</div>` to `%SafeProjectName%_app`.
2. In `Program.cs` change the ID `#app` of line `builder.RootComponents.Add<App>("#app");` to `#%SafeProjectName%_app`.

**Example:**

| Project Name | Safe Project Name | Element Name   |
| ------------ | ----------------- | -------------- |
| MyProject    | MyProject         | MyProject_app  |
| My.Project   | My_Project        | My_Project_app |
| My Project   | My_Project        | My_Project_app |
| My-Project   | My_Project        | My_Project_app |

In `App.razor`, add the following `if` statement to opt out of routing only for content scripts.
```razor
@using My.Project.Pages;
@inject IBrowserExtensionEnvironment BrowserExtensionEnvironment

@if (BrowserExtensionEnvironment.Mode == BrowserExtensionMode.ContentScript)
{
    <ContentScript></ContentScript>
}
else
{
    <Router ...>
        ...
    </Router>
}
```

## Browser Extension API
When you inherit from the `BasePage`, a few properties are injected for you to consume.
This includes the WebExtensions API and Logger.
The WebExtensions API is provided by the package [WebExtensions.Net](https://github.com/mingyaulee/WebExtensions.Net), and you can consume the API in a page:
```razor
@inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.BasePage;

<button @onclick="GetIndexPageUrl">Get index page URL</button>
<p>@indexPageUrl</p>

@code {
    string indexPageUrl = null;
    async Task GetIndexPageUrl()
    {
        indexPageUrl = await WebExtensions.Runtime.GetURL("index.html");
    }
}
```

## How does routing work
You can use the `@page` directive to add route attribute to a Razor page, for example `@page "/options"`.

Usually in a server hosted application, you can access the route by just going to `domain.com/options`.
However in a browser extension, for example in Google Chrome, if you are try to access the route directly from the URL, e.g. `chrome-extension://extesion_id/options`, the background page will automatically intercept the request and redirect to `index.html?page=options`.

This is because the Blazor application is not hosted on a server, therefore only the static files are served in a browser extension.

### Required permissions
The background page intercepting the requests need the permissions:
- "\*://\*/\*"
- "webRequest"
- "webRequestBlocking"

### Removing the permissions from the manifest
The background will only intercept the calls if it detects the permissions are declared.
When the permissions are not declared in the manifest, the only routing that works is the direct URL to the `index.html` file.
If you need to use multiple route, the routes need to have a matching physical file, e.g.
- Options page
    - Route: chrome://<extension_id>/options.html
    - File: wwwroot/options.html
    - Options.razor: @page "/options.html"
- Popup page
    - Route: chrome://<extension_id>/popup.html
    - File: wwwroot/popup.html
    - Popup.razor: @page "/popup.html"

Where the `options.html` and `popup.html` are duplicate files.

If the routes does not match a physical file, when trying to reload the extension page you will see a page not found (404) error.

## Customize build

The following MSBuild properties can be specified in your project file or when running `dotnet run`, `dotnet build` and `dotnet publish` command.

| Property                          | Default value                                        | Description                                                                    |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BrowserExtensionEnvironment       | Blazor default: Production                           | The environment name which the Blazor application will run in.                 |
| BrowserExtensionAssetsPath        | wwwroot                                              | The root folder where the JavaScript files should be added as link.            |
| BuildBlazorToBrowserExtension     | true                                                 | If set to false, the Blazor to Browser Extension build target will be skipped. |
| IncludeBrowserExtensionAssets     | true                                                 | If set to false, the JavaScript files will not be added as to the project.     |
| BrowserExtensionBootstrap         | false                                                | If set to true, the project will be bootstrapped during the build.             |
| BrowserExtensionEnableCompression | $(BlazorEnableCompression)<br />Blazor default: True | If set to true, the .br compressed files will be loaded instead of .dll.       |

## Additional Information
Find out how to build a cross browser extension with the links below:
1. [MDN - Building a cross-browser extension](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Build_a_cross_browser_extension)
2. [David Rousset - Creating One Browser Extension For All Browsers: Edge, Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Brave And Vivaldi](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2017/04/browser-extension-edge-chrome-firefox-opera-brave-vivaldi/)

Commit message:

Add version note in readme

README.md, after:

# Blazor.BrowserExtension
[![Nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Blazor.BrowserExtension?style=flat-square&color=blue)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Blazor.BrowserExtension/)
[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/mingyaulee/Blazor.BrowserExtension/Build?style=flat-square&color=blue)](https://github.com/mingyaulee/Blazor.BrowserExtension/actions/workflows/Blazor.BrowserExtension-Build.yml)
[![Sonar Quality Gate](https://img.shields.io/sonar/quality_gate/Blazor.BrowserExtension?server=https%3A%2F%2Fsonarcloud.io&style=flat-square)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=Blazor.BrowserExtension)

Build a browser extension with Blazor.

This package imports two other packages, which are:
1. [WebExtensions.Net](https://github.com/mingyaulee/WebExtensions.Net) - Provides interop for WebExtensions standard API.
2. Blazor.BrowserExtension.Build (in this repository) - Adds build target and tasks to the project.

## How to use this package

> **Important for v0.\*.\*:**<br />
> This package is still in pre-release stage so the versioning does not comply with semantic versioning. Feature and bug fix increments the patch version and breaking change increments the minor version. So be sure to check the release note before upgrading between minor version.

1. Run `dotnet new --install Blazor.BrowserExtension.Template`.
0. Run `dotnet new browserext --name <ProjectName>` to initialize a new project with the template.
0. Change the working directory into the newly created project directory.
0. Run `dotnet build` to build the project.

### Setup existing project
1. Install NuGet package `Blazor.BrowserExtension`.
0. Add `<BrowserExtensionBootstrap>true</BrowserExtensionBootstrap>` under the `<PropertyGroup>` node in your `.csproj` project file to automatically setup the project files to be compatible for building into browser extension.
0. Build the project.

### Manual Setting Up
You can setup the project manually as well, if for some reason you encounter any problem with the bootstrapping step above.
1. Add a new file `manifest.json` under the `wwwroot` folder. An example of minimal `manifest.json` file:
   ```json
   {
     "manifest_version": 2,
     "name": "My Blazor Extension",
     "description": "My browser extension built with Blazor WebAssembly",
     "version": "0.1",
     "background": {
       "page": "index.html?path=background",
       "persistent": true
     },
     "content_security_policy": "script-src 'self' 'unsafe-eval' 'wasm-eval' 'sha256-v8v3RKRPmN4odZ1CWM5gw80QKPCCWMcpNeOmimNL2AA='; object-src 'self'",
     "web_accessible_resources": [
       "framework/*",
       "BrowserExtensionScripts/*",
       "WebExtensionsScripts/*"
     ],
     "permissions": [
       "*://*/*",
       "webRequest",
       "webRequestBlocking"
     ]
   }
   ```
0. Add the following to the `.csproj` file to make sure that all the files under `wwwroot` will always be copied to the output.
   ```xml
     <ItemGroup>
       <None Include="wwwroot\**\*" CopyToOutputDirectory="Always" />
     </ItemGroup>
   ```
0. In `wwwroot/index.html` replace the script tag `<script src="_framework/blazor.webassembly.js"></script>` with `<script src="BrowserExtensionScripts/Core.js"></script>`
0. In `Pages/Index.razor` replace the first line `@page "/"` with the following lines:
   ```razor
   @page "/"
   @page "/index.html"
   @inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.IndexPage
   ```
0. Add a `Background.razor` file under `Pages` folder (Right click on the `Pages` folder and select Add -> Razor Component), with the following content:
   ```razor
   @page "/background"
   @inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.BackgroundPage
   @using WebExtensions.Net.Tabs
   
   @code {
       protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
       {
           await base.OnInitializedAsync();
           // this opens index.html in the extension as a new tab when the background page is loaded
           var extensionUrl = await WebExtensions.Runtime.GetURL("index.html");
           await WebExtensions.Tabs.Create(new CreateProperties()
           {
               url = extensionUrl
           });
       }
   }
   ```
0. Add the following into `Program.cs` file.
   ```csharp
   public static async Task Main(string[] args)
   {
       ...
       builder.Services.AddBrowserExtensionServices(options =>
       {
           options.ProjectNamespace = typeof(Program).Namespace;
       });
       ...
   }
   ```

## Change initialization behaviour
The following properties can be set to change the behaviour of the core scripts.

| Variable Name               | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ImportBrowserPolyfill       | Set to `false` to disable importing of the browser polyfill script.<br />Default: `true`                                                           |
| StartBlazorBrowserExtension | Set to `false` to prevent auto initialization of Blazor. Use `BlazorBrowserExtension.InitializeAsync` to initialize manually.<br />Default: `true` |

**Example:**

In `wwwroot/index.html`

```html
<script>
  globalThis.ImportBrowserPolyfill = false;
  globalThis.StartBlazorBrowserExtension = false;
</script>
<script src="BrowserExtensionScripts/Core.js"></script>
<script>
  globalThis.BlazorBrowserExtension.InitializeAsync("Production");
</script>
```

## Build and load extension
In Google Chrome, go to the Extensions page (Menu -> More tools -> Extensions) and switch on Developer mode.
Click on `Load unpacked` button and navigate to `%ProjectDir%\bin\Debug\net5.0\` and select the foler `wwwroot`

## Debugging in IIS Express or Kestrel
Update the script tag in `wwwroot/index.html` to load `CoreDebug.js` instead of `Core.js`.
```html
<script src="BrowserExtensionScripts/CoreDebug.js"></script>
```

## Browser Extension features

### Add a browser action popup page
Add the following to the `manifest.json`
```json
"browser_action": {
  "default_popup": "index.html?path=popup"
}
```
Add a `Popup.razor` Razor component under `Pages` folder with the following content.
```razor
@page "/popup"
@inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.BasePage

<h1>My popup page</h1>
```

### Add an extension options page
Add the following to the `manifest.json`
```json
"options_page": "index.html?path=options"
```
Add a `Options.razor` Razor component under `Pages` folder with the following content.
```razor
@page "/options"
@inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.BasePage

<h1>My options page</h1>
```

### Add a content script
Add the following to the `manifest.json`
```json
"content_scripts": [
  {
    "matches": [ "*://*/*" ],
    "js": [ "BrowserExtensionScripts/ContentScript.js" ]
  }
]
```
Add a `ContentScript.razor` Razor component under `Pages` folder with the following content.
```razor
@page "/contentscript"
@inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.BasePage

<h1>My content script</h1>
```
Additional changes are required for content scripts to not have conflict of the element ID of the Blazor root component with any other elements in any pages.
1. In `index.html` change the ID `app` of line `<div id="app">Loading...</div>` to `%SafeProjectName%_app`.
2. In `Program.cs` change the ID `#app` of line `builder.RootComponents.Add<App>("#app");` to `#%SafeProjectName%_app`.

**Example:**

| Project Name | Safe Project Name | Element Name   |
| ------------ | ----------------- | -------------- |
| MyProject    | MyProject         | MyProject_app  |
| My.Project   | My_Project        | My_Project_app |
| My Project   | My_Project        | My_Project_app |
| My-Project   | My_Project        | My_Project_app |

In `App.razor`, add the following `if` statement to opt out of routing only for content scripts.
```razor
@using My.Project.Pages;
@inject IBrowserExtensionEnvironment BrowserExtensionEnvironment

@if (BrowserExtensionEnvironment.Mode == BrowserExtensionMode.ContentScript)
{
    <ContentScript></ContentScript>
}
else
{
    <Router ...>
        ...
    </Router>
}
```

## Browser Extension API
When you inherit from the `BasePage`, a few properties are injected for you to consume.
This includes the WebExtensions API and Logger.
The WebExtensions API is provided by the package [WebExtensions.Net](https://github.com/mingyaulee/WebExtensions.Net), and you can consume the API in a page:
```razor
@inherits Blazor.BrowserExtension.Pages.BasePage;

<button @onclick="GetIndexPageUrl">Get index page URL</button>
<p>@indexPageUrl</p>

@code {
    string indexPageUrl = null;
    async Task GetIndexPageUrl()
    {
        indexPageUrl = await WebExtensions.Runtime.GetURL("index.html");
    }
}
```

## How does routing work
You can use the `@page` directive to add route attribute to a Razor page, for example `@page "/options"`.

Usually in a server hosted application, you can access the route by just going to `domain.com/options`.
However in a browser extension, for example in Google Chrome, if you are try to access the route directly from the URL, e.g. `chrome-extension://extesion_id/options`, the background page will automatically intercept the request and redirect to `index.html?page=options`.

This is because the Blazor application is not hosted on a server, therefore only the static files are served in a browser extension.

### Required permissions
The background page intercepting the requests need the permissions:
- "\*://\*/\*"
- "webRequest"
- "webRequestBlocking"

### Removing the permissions from the manifest
The background will only intercept the calls if it detects the permissions are declared.
When the permissions are not declared in the manifest, the only routing that works is the direct URL to the `index.html` file.
If you need to use multiple route, the routes need to have a matching physical file, e.g.
- Options page
    - Route: chrome://<extension_id>/options.html
    - File: wwwroot/options.html
    - Options.razor: @page "/options.html"
- Popup page
    - Route: chrome://<extension_id>/popup.html
    - File: wwwroot/popup.html
    - Popup.razor: @page "/popup.html"

Where the `options.html` and `popup.html` are duplicate files.

If the routes does not match a physical file, when trying to reload the extension page you will see a page not found (404) error.

## Customize build

The following MSBuild properties can be specified in your project file or when running `dotnet run`, `dotnet build` and `dotnet publish` command.

| Property                          | Default value                                        | Description                                                                    |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BrowserExtensionEnvironment       | Blazor default: Production                           | The environment name which the Blazor application will run in.                 |
| BrowserExtensionAssetsPath        | wwwroot                                              | The root folder where the JavaScript files should be added as link.            |
| BuildBlazorToBrowserExtension     | true                                                 | If set to false, the Blazor to Browser Extension build target will be skipped. |
| IncludeBrowserExtensionAssets     | true                                                 | If set to false, the JavaScript files will not be added as to the project.     |
| BrowserExtensionBootstrap         | false                                                | If set to true, the project will be bootstrapped during the build.             |
| BrowserExtensionEnableCompression | $(BlazorEnableCompression)<br />Blazor default: True | If set to true, the .br compressed files will be loaded instead of .dll.       |

## Additional Information
Find out how to build a cross browser extension with the links below:
1. [MDN - Building a cross-browser extension](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Build_a_cross_browser_extension)
2. [David Rousset - Creating One Browser Extension For All Browsers: Edge, Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Brave And Vivaldi](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2017/04/browser-extension-edge-chrome-firefox-opera-brave-vivaldi/)
